IndiGo cancelled more than 100 flights across major airports and delayed scores of others on Wednesday, as the country’s largest airline continued to grapple with severe operational disruptions triggered primarily by crew shortages.


Operating around 2,300 flights daily, the airline said a “multitude of unforeseen operational challenges” had significantly affected its network over the past two days, and apologised to passengers for the inconvenience. According to sources, more than 100 flights were cancelled across Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Hyderabad. Bengaluru saw at least 42 cancellations, Delhi 38, Mumbai 33 and Hyderabad 19. IndiGo was also reported to have stopped pilot recruitment 6 months ago and restarted it in November.

With airports witnessing scenes of chaos and hundreds of travellers stranded on Tuesday, IndiGo has begun “calibrated adjustments” to its schedule, which include flight cancellations and rescheduling, sources added.

Expert Explains How the Crisis Unfolded
Aviation expert, lawyer and Avialaz Consultants CEO Sanjay Lazar explained how the ongoing crisis at IndiGo unfolded, noting that the disruptions have hit domestic aviation hard and caused widespread chaos across multiple cities.

He pointed out that DGCA data shows IndiGo cancelled 1,232 flights, of which 755 cancellations—or 61%—were linked to crew and FDTL constraints. Another 350 flights were cancelled due to ATC or airport restrictions. “One must assume the remaining 100 odd flights were affected due to technical glitches,” Lazar noted.

You May Like
Secure Your Child’s Future with Strong English Fluency
Planet Spark
  by TaboolaSponsored Links
Related Stories
OPINION | IndiGo Lessons for Core Infra Sector: Market concentration cripples Indian aviation
Indigo flights cancellation news live: Chaos continues, cancellations hit 1,000-mark; Delhi, Chennai...
How to cancel your flight tickets in 5 easy steps
He said the airline’s troubles come despite IndiGo having sought and received approval to increase its domestic flight count from 14,114 in Summer 2025 to 15,014 in Winter 2025, a rise of 900 flights.

FDTL Rules and Delayed Preparedness
Lazar highlighted that the Delhi High Court had ordered new DGCA duty-time regulations last year. While airlines such as IndiGo, Air India and Air India Express initially sought a one-year extension to hire and train pilots before the new rest periods came into effect in June 2025, they later requested more time, eventually receiving a final extension until November 2025.

“Airlines are required to simulate their schedules on rosters, using DGCA FDTL rules prior to a new schedule, and obviously all airlines must have done so, thus it seems inexplicable that such a major disruption could occur. No airline could now claim to be unprepared for the new rules after 18 months of lead time,” Sanjay Lazar said.

Reiterating his concerns, he added: “The disruption cannot be used as an excuse to delay the much-needed FDTL rules to alleviate pilot fatigue, which have been hanging fire for years.” He said IndiGo and other airlines remain committed to safety and to implementing the rules.

Passenger Impact and Weak Consumer Protections
Lazar also criticised the lack of focus on passengers. “The passenger has been forgotten, with travellers stranded and going through hell due to missed connections and delays during peak season,” he said. He noted that the crisis “exposes the lack of proper passenger protection in India, unlike the European Community nations,” adding that the Indian passenger charter “is weaker than milk tea.”

Calling for regulatory scrutiny, he said the DGCA must examine the situation seriously, as it has impacted both passenger movement and economic activity nationwide, especially since IndiGo commands 63% of the market and Air India 28%.

Lazar warned that India, despite being the fastest-growing aviation market in the world, still lacks sufficient DGCA manpower to effectively police the skies, along with a robust passenger rights framework. He added, “I hope the government gives this issue the importance it deserves.”

IndiGo’s Response and Operational Adjustments
IndiGo said it has initiated calibrated adjustments to the schedules to contain the disruption and restore stability. The airline did not share any specific numbers.

IndiGo has issued a statement attributing these delays to technical glitches, weather conditions, ATC and airport issues and implementation of the new FDTL rules. They have also realigned their schedules and hope that the situation gets resolved in the next 48 hours.

Pilots’ Body Blames Poor Resource Planning
Airline Pilots' Association of India (ALPA) on Wednesday said the operational disruptions at IndiGo due to crew issues point to a failure of proactive resource planning by dominant airlines, and claimed that there could also be an effort to pressurise regulator DGCA to dilute the new flight duty time limitation norms.

Grounded Fleet Adds To Strain
As on December 2, IndiGo had a total of 416 planes in the fleet, with 366 of them in operations and 50 on ground, up from 47 last month, as per the aircraft fleet tracking website Planespotter.com.

Sanjay Lazar is an Aviation expert, Lawyer & CEO Avialaz consultants, with 40 years of experience.  He is @sjlazars on @x .